scripts/rts2saf/sphinx/integration.rst, before:

RTS2 integration
================

Integration of rts2saf
----------------------

In ``/etc/rts2/rts2.ini`` section

.. code-block:: bash

 [imgproc]
 astrometry = "/usr/local/bin/rts2saf_imgp.py"

``rts2saf_imgp.py`` calls ``rts2saf_fwhm.py`` which measures the FWHM of
each image after it has been stored on disk. If FWHM is above threshold it 
writes tar_id 5 into selector's focusing queue. Next executed target will 
be ``tar_id 5`` that's ``OnTargetFocus``.

rts2-centrlad configuration
---------------------------
Restore the real ``/etc/rts2/devices`` file in case you wish them to be present


rts2-selector configuration
---------------------------
Configure ``selector`` (SEL), replace the default in ``/etc/rts2/services`` with

  selector        SEL    --add-queue plan --add-queue focusing --add-queue manual

You might have additional queue names hence add them.

RTS2 environment test
---------------------

To make sure that the ``rts2saf_focus.py`` is executable within RTS2 environment use: 

.. code-block:: bash

      cd ~/rts-2/scripts/rts2saf/
      rts2-scriptexec -d C0 -s ' exe ./rts2saf_focus.py '

and check the log file ``/tmp/rts2saf_focus.py.log`` in case the results are not
what you are expecting.

To see script ``rts2saf_imgp.py`` working use:

.. code-block:: bash

  cd ~/rts-2/scripts/rts2saf/
  ./rts2saf_imgp.py  samples/20071205025911-725-RA.fits

The output goes to ``/var/log/rts2-debug``.

RTS2 EXEC manual start
----------------------

Start ``rts2-mon`` and bring RTS2 to state ``ON``, press 

.. code-block:: bash

 F4

Then  move to tab EXEC and check or change to

.. code-block:: bash

 ignore_day        true
 enabled           true
 selector_next     false
 auto_loop         false
 default_auto_loop false

To execute target ``tar_id=5`` now type

.. code-block:: bash

  now 5

and watch the log files

.. code-block:: bash

  tail -f /var/log/rts2-debug /tmp/rts2saf_focus.py.log

RTS2 SEL manual queuing
-----------------------

To queue a focus run through ``rts2-selector`` (SEL) use

.. code-block:: bash

 rts2-queue --queue focusing OnTargetFocus


Command line execution, night time
----------------------------------
Execute 

.. code-block:: bash

  rts2saf_focus.py --toconsole --displayfit --displayds9

and after a while the ``matplotlib`` window opens and after closing
it the ``DS9`` window.

Commit message:

docu, empty slot counted correct
git-svn-id: http://svn.code.sf.net/p/rts-2/code/trunk/rts-2@11633 65ab8f4e-f147-0410-b3a9-f14133ecfe55

scripts/rts2saf/sphinx/integration.rst, after:

RTS2 integration
================

Integration of rts2saf
----------------------

In ``/etc/rts2/rts2.ini`` section

.. code-block:: bash

 [imgproc]
 astrometry = "/usr/local/bin/rts2saf_imgp.py"

``rts2saf_imgp.py`` calls ``rts2saf_fwhm.py`` which measures the FWHM of
each image after it has been stored on disk. If FWHM is above threshold it 
writes ``tar_id 5`` into selector's ``focusing`` queue. Next executed target will 
be ``tar_id 5`` that's ``OnTargetFocus``.

rts2-centrlad configuration
---------------------------
Restore the real ``/etc/rts2/devices`` file in case you wish them to be present


rts2-selector configuration
---------------------------
Configure ``selector`` (SEL), replace the default in ``/etc/rts2/services`` with

.. code-block:: bash

  selector        SEL    --add-queue plan --add-queue focusing --add-queue manual

You might have additional queue names hence add them.

RTS2 environment test
---------------------

To make sure that the ``rts2saf_focus.py`` is executable within RTS2 environment use: 

.. code-block:: bash

      cd ~/rts-2/scripts/rts2saf/
      rts2-scriptexec -d C0 -s ' exe ./rts2saf_focus.py '

and check the log file ``/tmp/rts2saf_focus.py.log`` in case the results are not
what you are expecting.

To see script ``rts2saf_imgp.py`` working use:

.. code-block:: bash

  cd ~/rts-2/scripts/rts2saf/
  ./rts2saf_imgp.py  samples/20071205025911-725-RA.fits

The output goes to ``/var/log/rts2-debug``.

RTS2 EXEC manual start
----------------------

Start ``rts2-mon`` and bring RTS2 to state ``ON``, press 

.. code-block:: bash

 F4

Then  move to tab EXEC and check or change to

.. code-block:: bash

 ignore_day        true
 enabled           true
 selector_next     false
 auto_loop         false
 default_auto_loop false

To execute target ``tar_id=5`` now type

.. code-block:: bash

  now 5

and watch the log files

.. code-block:: bash

  tail -f /var/log/rts2-debug /tmp/rts2saf_focus.py.log

RTS2 SEL manual queuing
-----------------------

To queue a focus run through ``rts2-selector`` (SEL) use

.. code-block:: bash

 rts2-queue --queue focusing OnTargetFocus

(Re-)enable SEL and EXEC. 

Command line execution, night time
----------------------------------
Execute 

.. code-block:: bash

  rts2saf_focus.py --toconsole --displayfit --displayds9

and after a while a ``matplotlib`` window appears with data and the fit and after closing
it the ``DS9`` window appears.
