scripts/rts2saf/sphinx/offline.rst, before:

Offline analysis
================

The script ``rts2saf_analyze.py`` provides a very basic analysis, namely

 1) the minimum of the fitted function
 2) a linear fit of the minima as a function of ambient temperature if available in FITS header
 3) FITS image display through ``DS9`` together with their region files.

``rts2saf_analyze.py`` is not restricted to ``RST2/rts2saf_focus.py`` created FITS files
as long as the images are grouped properly (see below).

The fit result is stored as ``PNG`` in the directory where the FITS files reside.
Through option ``--filternames`` the analysis can be restricted to a list of filter names.

Option ``--cataloganalysis`` performs the analysis based on the properties available through
``SExtractor's`` ``parameters``. The default configuration provides these parameters:

.. code-block:: bash

   [SExtractor]
   FIELDS = EXT_NUMBER,X_IMAGE,Y_IMAGE,MAG_BEST,FLAGS,CLASS_STAR,FWHM_IMAGE,A_IMAGE,B_IMAGE

and others can be added at will. Specify the module filename without postfix ``.py`` as argument 
of option ``--criteria``. To use a criteria you have to implement at least a class ``Criteria``
with a method named ``decide()``:

.. code-block:: python

   class Criteria(object):
   
      def decide(self, catalogEntry=None):
         return True

This is a simplified version of ``criteria_radius``:

.. code-block:: python

   class Criteria(object):
      def __init__(self, dataSex=None, rt=None):
         self.dataSex=dataSex
         self.rt=rt

	 # .fields contains the list of available SExtractor parameters
         self.i_x = self.dataSex[0].fields.index('X_IMAGE')
         self.i_y = self.dataSex[0].fields.index('Y_IMAGE')
	 # naxis1, naxis2 from FITS header
         self.center=[ self.dataSex[0].naxis1/2.,self.dataSex[0].naxis2/2. ] 
	 # radius from configuration file
         self.radius= self.rt.cfg['RADIUS'] 


      def decide(self, catalogEntry=None):
         rd= math.sqrt(pow(catalogEntry[self.i_x]-self.center[0],2)+ pow(catalogEntry[self.i_y]-self.center[1],2))
         if rd < self.radius:
             return True
         else:
             return False

``decide()`` returns ``True`` if a given object is within radius ``self.rt.cfg['RADIUS']``. 



Image directory lay out
-----------------------

``rts2saf_focus.py`` copies the files from RTS2 images directory to BASE_DIRECTORY.
In case a filter wheel is used to:

.. code-block:: bash

 BASE_DIRECTORY
 |   |-- 2013-10-06T00:45:50.388784
 |   |   `-- COLWFLT
 |   |       |-- R
 |   |       |   |-- 20131006004742-269-RA-000.fits
 |   |       |   |-- 20131006004800-189-RA-001.fits
 |   |       |   |-- 20131006004818-081-RA-002.fits
                 ...
 |   |       |   `-- 20131006004929-777-RA-006.fits
 |   |       `-- open
 |   |           |-- 20131006004553-264-RA-000.fits
 |   |           |-- 20131006004601-425-RA-001.fits
                 ...
 |   |           `-- 20131006004728-017-RA-012.fits
     ...
 ...

First sub level is the date, where the run took place, second level is named after the filter wheel (``COLWFLT``)
and the third level is named after the used filter (``R``, ``open``). In case no filter wheel is used the
last two levels are dropped:

.. code-block:: bash

 BASE_DIRECTORY
 |   |-- 2013-10-06T00:45:50.388784
 |   |       |-- 20131006004742-269-RA-000.fits
 |   |       |-- 20131006004800-189-RA-001.fits
 |   |       |-- 20131006004818-081-RA-002.fits
                 ...
 |   |       `-- 20131006004929-777-RA-006.fits


``rts2saf_focus.py`` copes with directory structures like

.. code-block:: bash

  BASE_DIRECTORY
 |-- 2013-10
 |   |-- 2013-10-01T19:10:48.363237
 |   |   `-- COLWFLT
 |   ...
 ...

and so on.

Focuser temperature model
-------------------------
Interactive usage is carried out through

.. code-block:: bash

 rts2saf_analyze.py --toconsole --fitdisplay --ds9display --basepath BASE

while 

.. code-block:: bash

 rts2saf_analyze.py --basepath BASE

does it all quietly writing only to the log file and to the fit result image files. The parameter
values for the temperature model can be retrieved from the log file.

Monitoring
----------

During acquisition, ``rts2saf_analyze.py`` is being executed by EXEC in the background, 
no plots or images are displayed. To get an idea how an ongoing focus run looks like use

.. code-block:: bash

 rts2saf_analyze.py --toconsole --fitdisplay --ds9display --basepath  BASE_DIRECTORY/DATE 

where ``BASE_DIRECTORY`` refers to the configuration file and ``DATE`` to the start time.
The processes do not interfere at all.

Commit message:

more docu
git-svn-id: http://svn.code.sf.net/p/rts-2/code/trunk/rts-2@11661 65ab8f4e-f147-0410-b3a9-f14133ecfe55

scripts/rts2saf/sphinx/offline.rst, after:

Offline analysis
================

The script ``rts2saf_analyze.py`` provides a very basic analysis, namely

 1) the minimum of the fitted function
 2) a linear fit of the minima as a function of ambient temperature if available in FITS header
 3) FITS image display through ``DS9`` together with their region files.

``rts2saf_analyze.py`` is not restricted to ``RST2/rts2saf_focus.py`` created FITS files
as long as the images are grouped properly (see below).

The fit result is stored as ``PNG`` in the directory where the FITS files reside.
Through option ``--filternames`` the analysis can be restricted to a list of filter names.

Option ``--cataloganalysis`` performs the analysis based on the properties available through
``SExtractor's`` ``parameters``. The default configuration provides these parameters:

.. code-block:: bash

   [SExtractor]
   FIELDS = EXT_NUMBER,X_IMAGE,Y_IMAGE,MAG_BEST,FLAGS,CLASS_STAR,FWHM_IMAGE,A_IMAGE,B_IMAGE

and others can be added at will.  To use a criteria you have to implement at least a class ``Criteria``
with a method named ``decide()``:

.. code-block:: python

   class Criteria(object):
   
      def decide(self, catalogEntry=None):
         return True

Specify the module filename without postfix ``.py`` as argument 
of option ``--criteria``. This is a simplified version of ``criteria_radius``:

.. code-block:: python

   class Criteria(object):
      def __init__(self, dataSex=None, rt=None):
         self.dataSex=dataSex
         self.rt=rt

	 # .fields contains the list of available SExtractor parameters
         self.i_x = self.dataSex[0].fields.index('X_IMAGE')
         self.i_y = self.dataSex[0].fields.index('Y_IMAGE')
	 # naxis1, naxis2 from FITS header
         self.center=[ self.dataSex[0].naxis1/2.,self.dataSex[0].naxis2/2. ] 
	 # radius from configuration file
         self.radius= self.rt.cfg['RADIUS'] 


      def decide(self, catalogEntry=None):
         rd= math.sqrt(pow(catalogEntry[self.i_x]-self.center[0],2)+ pow(catalogEntry[self.i_y]-self.center[1],2))
         if rd < self.radius:
             return True
         else:
             return False

``decide()`` returns ``True`` if a given object is within radius ``self.rt.cfg['RADIUS']``. 



Image directory lay out
-----------------------

``rts2saf_focus.py`` copies the files from RTS2 images directory to BASE_DIRECTORY.
In case a filter wheel is used to:

.. code-block:: bash

 BASE_DIRECTORY
 |   |-- 2013-10-06T00:45:50.388784
 |   |   `-- COLWFLT
 |   |       |-- R
 |   |       |   |-- 20131006004742-269-RA-000.fits
 |   |       |   |-- 20131006004800-189-RA-001.fits
 |   |       |   |-- 20131006004818-081-RA-002.fits
                 ...
 |   |       |   `-- 20131006004929-777-RA-006.fits
 |   |       `-- open
 |   |           |-- 20131006004553-264-RA-000.fits
 |   |           |-- 20131006004601-425-RA-001.fits
                 ...
 |   |           `-- 20131006004728-017-RA-012.fits
     ...
 ...

First sub level is the date, where the run took place, second level is named after the filter wheel (``COLWFLT``)
and the third level is named after the used filter (``R``, ``open``). In case no filter wheel is used the
last two levels are dropped:

.. code-block:: bash

 BASE_DIRECTORY
 |   |-- 2013-10-06T00:45:50.388784
 |   |       |-- 20131006004742-269-RA-000.fits
 |   |       |-- 20131006004800-189-RA-001.fits
 |   |       |-- 20131006004818-081-RA-002.fits
                 ...
 |   |       `-- 20131006004929-777-RA-006.fits


``rts2saf_focus.py`` copes with directory structures like

.. code-block:: bash

  BASE_DIRECTORY
 |-- 2013-10
 |   |-- 2013-10-01T19:10:48.363237
 |   |   `-- COLWFLT
 |   ...
 ...

and so on.

Focuser temperature model
-------------------------
If the FITS header contains (ambient) temperature a tepmperature model is fitted at the end of the analysis.
Specify the name of the header element in the configuration file if the default 

.. code-block:: bash

 [fits header mapping]
 AMBIENTTEMPERATURE = HIERARCH DAVIS.DOME_TMP

does not match. In the above case ``HIERARCH DAVIS.DOME_TMP`` is used as temperature.
To carry out the analysis watching fitted curves and selected stars use

.. code-block:: bash

 rts2saf_analyze.py --toconsole --fitdisplay --ds9display --basepath BASE

while 

.. code-block:: bash

 rts2saf_analyze.py --basepath BASE

does it all quietly writing only to the log file and to the fit result image files. The parameter
values for the temperature model can be retrieved from the log file.

Monitoring
----------

During acquisition, ``rts2saf_focus.py`` is being executed by EXEC in the background, 
no plots or images are displayed. To get an idea how an ongoing focus run looks like use

.. code-block:: bash

 rts2saf_analyze.py --toconsole --fitdisplay --ds9display --basepath  BASE_DIRECTORY/DATE 

where ``BASE_DIRECTORY`` refers to the configuration file and ``DATE`` to the start time.
The processes do not interfere at all.
